# High Availability (HA)

- AWS provides 3 types of load balancers:
	- **Application load balancer (ALB)**: useful for balancing HTTP/HTTPS traffic, operate at Layer 7 and are application-aware;
	- **network load balancer**: useful for balancing TCP traffic, operate at Layer 4 and can achieve extreme performance;
	- **Classic load balancer**: legacy ELBs, can operate at Layer 7 (can include features such as X-Forwarded and sticky sessions, but not application-aware) and Layer 4.
- ELBs in VPC support IPv4 addresses only, while ELBs in EC2-classic support both IPv4 and IPv6.
- ELB returns `504 Gateway Timeout` when either app server or db server is down.
- `X-Forwarded-For` can be used to identify the actual source IP address of the requests.
- ELBs use health check to determine whether traffic should be forwarded to a certain server.
- ELBs always have a DNS name (i.e., domain name), but do not have an IP address.
- _Sticky session_ allows to bind a user's session to a specific EC2 instance.
	- If you enable _sticky session_ for ALBs, the traffic will only be sent at the target group level.
- It is possible to enable _cross-zone load balancing_ on ELBs.
	- If you do not enable cross-zone LB, you can ask Route53 to split the traffic to different AZs and have one ELB per AZ as well.
- It is also possible to create a listen with rules to forward traffic based on the _path pattern_ of URLs, which is also known as _path-based routing_.
	- This is useful for building your own API gateway for microservices.

## HA Architecture Principles

- Everything fails, thus, you should plan for failure.
- There must be redundant resources for every level.
	- Different regions, different AZs, different subsets, different instances (EC2, RDS).
- To prepare for scalability, we can do either horizontal scalability (scale out) or veritical scalability (scale up).
- We have to always seek balance between HA and cost effectiveness.

## CloudFormation

- CloudFormation is a way of completely scripting a set of cloud resources.
	- Other infrastructure-as-code (IaC) solutions like Terraform may be better.
- CloudFormation also provides some pre-configured templates called Quickstarts.

## Elastic Beanstalk

- Elastic Beanstalk helps to quickly deploy applications on AWS without being aware of the underlying resources used.
- Elastic Beanstalk is a good starting point, but definitely not a good engineering practice at scale.
